# Projects
These projects were made from scratch, not from a book or learning platform, but just to try to see how difficult it is to make a game or a movie-recommendation program from scratch. All projects were made before starting any programming courses, and mostly relied on the knowledge I got from the book 'Think Python' by Allen Downey, of which I made all the excersises. Of course websites like stackoverflow were also used.
## Four in a row (finished in 05/2022)
I always heard of people having their first programming course and having to program Tic-Tac-Toe and I was intrigued how hard that would be, so I looked at some code for Tic-Tac-Toe and built Four in a row from scratch. This was very fun because it was the first time I programmed something that was interactive and would actually show something on the screen. It was a lot of trial and error with the coordinates, but in the end it worked. It taught me about PyGame, user inputs and thinking of a game's logic, but I forgot to look at the aesthetics... 
## Mastermind (finished in 06/2022)
This game is similar to Four in a row in the sense of the Pygame lay-out, but the logic was more difficult (for me) to program elegantly. It got me thinking about better ways to test a program instead of just running it to see how it behaves, because this would take a lot of time, and more fundamental ways of looking at how to 'prove' that the logic I wrote was true. It worked out in the end, but again, the aesthetics were done on the fly.
## Movie recommendations (finished in 07/2022)
This was my first relatively large project where I wanted to get into machine learning. I found that the KNN-algorithm was easy to understand, so I decided to try to make it from scratch. I also found the IMDB-database with all their movies so I tried to make a movie recommendation program. 
The program works, and taught me a lot about how to deal with a big data set. I had to work with different data structures and types which was very useful. I also find it quite cool that I created the KNN-algorithm from scratch, not that it is so difficult, but because it shows how intuitive it is. 
The program is not fast when I look at the code now, because I didn't choose the data structures very efficiently. Creating and looping through dictionaries turns out to be pretty exhaustive for a program, and efficiency wasn't something I was looking at when I was writing the code. Looking back at it makes me think of more efficient ways of writing the program, for example using pandas instead of text files, and trying to do more things at the same time when iterating through the data set, so that that doesn't have to happen so many times.
The IMDB data set was too large to upload, but is freely available at their website: https://developer.imdb.com/non-commercial-datasets/
## Tetris (finished in 10/2022)
Tetris was the final project I did before starting with actual programming-courses, and writing this taught me a lot, but also took a long time. Looking back at it, it shows clearly that I did not have a very solid plan from the beginning, but I just started trying and hoped that it would work out, which I think makes sense for someone who never programmed something like this. This can be seen from the not-so-elegant code for rotating for example, which I couldn't figure out how to do in any other way because otherwise I had to practically start all over. There were a few time when I got stuck and had to do some parts from scratch again because I just didn't know all the elements that went into a game more sophisticated than Mastermind.
But, it was very cool to work with object-oriented programming for the first time, which was a whole new way of looking at this game. I was glad that it was covered a bit in 'Think Python', because I wouldn't have known how to do something like this otherwise. Of course this was just the beginning of OO-programming, because now when I look at the code I think that I could have written a lot of the functions inside the class, which would have made things more coherent. I could have also used the __str__-function for example to print the board, but these were things I didn't learn about until later.
Another (huge) new aspect of Tetris was that it was time-based: things were happening in real time. Working with actual time turned out to be quite difficult, and the logic behind it in my code can seem a bit incoherent. But, in the end it was very satisfying to see when the blocks would move down in the right way, increasing their speed with each level.
This is the project I am most proud of, because it taught me so much, and because it actually works like Tetris!
